
# StackProfViz

StackProfViz is a gem that provides a web-based interface for visualizing and interacting with profiling data generated by StackProf. It aims to make performance data analysis more accessible and intuitive for developers. The tool combines a Sinatra backend with a React (TypeScript) frontend, delivering an interactive and user-friendly UI.

## Project Overview

StackProfViz serves as a bridge between complex performance data and the need for an accessible way to analyze it. It allows software developers and performance engineers to easily visualize and interact with profiling data from Ruby applications, simplifying the interpretation of StackProf outputs.

## Functionality

- **Interactive Data Visualization**: View and interact with your StackProf data in a graphical format.
- **Search and Filtering**: Quickly find and focus on specific parts of your profiling data.
- **Detailed Performance Metrics**: Drill down into the specifics of your application's performance.

## Installation

Add StackProfViz to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'stackprof-viz'
```

Then execute:

```bash
bundle install
```

Or install it yourself:

```bash
gem install stackprof-viz
```

## Usage

Instructions on how to use StackProfViz after installation.

## Development

To set up a development environment for StackProfViz:

1. Clone the repository.
2. Run `bin/setup` to install dependencies.
3. Start the Sinatra server for the backend with:
   ```bash
   bundle exec bin/stackprof-viz-dev
   ```
4. In a separate terminal, navigate to the frontend directory and start the Vite server with:
   ```bash
   pnpm run dev
   ```
5. You can now access the UI locally and interact with the StackProf data.

## How to Release

To build the frontend for production:

```bash
pnpm run build
```

To release a new version of the gem:

1. Update the version number in `version.rb`.
2. Run `bundle exec rake release`. This will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to open a pull request or submit an issue on GitHub at [StackProfViz Repository](https://github.com/bonyuta0204/stackprof-viz).

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](https://github.com/bonyuta0204/stackprof-viz/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

## License

This gem is available under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
